gosh isn't just a sacrifice to give up
bread and cookies and candy and things
like that I really focus on the fact
that my biggest sacrifice was when I
wasn't able to live my life and now not
having those foods is not the second
face the sacrifice was my life before I
definitely think that it's more mindset
now than I realized when I started
everybody welcome to hell theory my name
is Tom Bilyeu I'm the co-founder of
quest nutrition and the co-founder of
impact theory and I believe that to live
a truly optimal life there are three
things you need to focus on diet
exercise and mindset today we're gonna
be diving into the health side of the
equation and we have an amazing guest
with us she is an author and social
influencer who lost over 120 pounds
after switching to the ketogenic
lifestyle and she documented her entire
weight loss journey on her youtube
channel which by the way is awesome
she's super vulnerable super inspiring
and full of useful information she's the
author of simply Kido and the face
behind at keto Karma please help me in
welcoming Suzanne Ryan and you won the
quest super fan award we initially met
yes yeah very cool to have you here now
on this set talking about your new book
which is very impressive and what I love
about the book is the way that it starts
which is how I want to start here so
you've obviously had this massive
transformation which is absolutely
incredible but to really understand that
and to know how powerful it is we have
to start back really when you were a kid
walk us through as your parents go
through the divorce like what's
happening what your relationship with
food was like yeah so basically our
family was like pretty close in it and
then once we moved to Florida I was
probably in like the second or third
grade and my parents got divorced and it
was a really messy divorce there was
just a lot of conflict the two didn't
talk to each other we were kind of torn
in the middle then we ended up moving in
with my dad and we actually lived in
some places that didn't even have
kitchens like just kind of like really
living in garages I mean we were just
kind of barely getting by so my dad
didn't really know a whole lot about
nutrition or cooking and we grew up on
fast food so we
would drive through McDonald's and all
these different things and we lived on
processed food Pizza anything that was
quick and cheap and easy so that kind of
ended up being the thing that I grew up
with it that that was the food that I
loved because that's what I was used to
I know that feeling well so growing up
in a morbidly obese family for me it was
that that's just how you ate like I
didn't really think about it and I
remember in your book you were saying oh
we live for discount pizza night yeah
and you know we had the same kind of
rhythm and honestly like I didn't even
think like did you think a lot about it
in terms of what was happening with your
weight at that time or was it only when
you started to get reflections back at
school yeah I would say not until I was
more into middle school did I actually
start to see like there was like an
emotional component tied into like why I
like to eat on top of just the taste of
the food so it it really didn't seem to
affect my weight a lot at first but then
when I started getting into middle
school it was really set me apart from
everyone else and you talk in the book
pretty eloquently about it but what was
that time like in terms of being picked
on and stuff like that um it was hard
because I think during that time you're
really trying to figure out who you are
and what's important to you and what
life is all about and there's just so
many different things that you're going
through and I think having so much
negativity really made me second-guess
who I was and my self-esteem really took
a hit I just kind of felt like I didn't
have that sense of belonging and I was
trying so hard to get that and it just
never really was there and it was just a
really lonely time and I ended up kind
of just turning to food even more
because no matter what I was going
through food was always a constant even
my parents would say like oh you know
that you've had a bad day like let's go
get some ice cream you know it's they
were trying to do whatever they could to
help you know make things better for me
as well and food was kind of one of
their tools as well and what do you
teach your kids about it now like how do
you not let them get into that same kind
of whether you're high or you're low
turn to food to either celebrate or
soothe yourself yeah so I feel like this
is a trickiest part because I don't want
my daughter to have issues with food I
don't her to be fearing food but I want
her to also be able to be a kid and go
to a birthday parties and have like a
cupcake if she wants but what I try to
do is you
kind of give her some guidance and let
her know what some healthy options are
and kind of let her make some choices
and you don't give her like two options
that are good choices and let her kind
of figure it out herself but I'm not
overly hard on her about it because I
don't want her to have like a negative
relationship with food and be fearful
and constantly worried about it but I
definitely think that there needs to be
a foundation of what nutrition is which
I didn't have at all it's interesting
did you know that the food was tied to
your weight gain or was that somewhat
like it like for me as a kid I literally
didn't equate oh my mom and my sister
and my dad are all heavy because of what
they eat so that this was a trickiest
part for me because everyone in my
family was thin except for me and we all
everyone ate the same thing so there
would be months or times where we
wouldn't drink water so it was like the
main thing that we drank and I was the
only one in my family that had a weight
issue so I was like what is wrong with
me you know and and it was kind of
interesting because it's tied into um
like not feeling good enough not feeling
deserving and I'm like and I can't you
know I can't even eat the same thing so
very eating without having it affect me
differently so I just felt completely
out of the loop in every way it's really
interesting you talked about that I
can't remember if it was in your book or
your blog but you talked about like I
really thought I'm gonna lose this
weight this is gonna be amazing I don't
feel so good about myself yeah and then
it didn't quite pan out that way right
so what what's your and I don't know
that you would call it a movement but
one thing that I find interesting about
where you're starting to go as an
influencer is talking about not just a
ketogenic diet but self-love and how you
get yourself in the right headspace
what's that process been like I think
initially my focus was so much on keto
because it changed my life so much but
then I started really breaking down to
the fact that I'm the one that changed
my life that diet was a tool but
ultimately I was really making myself a
priority and putting myself first and
investing in myself and seeing my own
value and I think when I realized what a
huge role that that actually played on
my ability to stick to something and to
invest in myself then I was like wait
this is the thing that we're not talking
about because a lot of people are
struggling with their weight
they don't want to talk about it because
you feel shame you're embarrassed it's
just a lot of things it's hard to talk
about you know if people would ask me
about my weight before I would not even
tell people the size of my clothing let
alone tell people the you know how awful
I was feeling or how sad I was feeling
so to be able to now just come out and
be like hey I know how that feels and I
can promise you that you can actually
break through to it is the really main
message because I think there's going to
be so many different ways that people
can eat that works for them like maybe
keto will work for me but not for
somebody else but the common theme is
believing in yourself and really having
that transformation take place because
you're investing in yourself so walk me
through so it's interesting that you
because a lot of people get so religious
about their way of eating and it's no
longer about hey let's find something
that works for you it's all about this
work for me and I'm gonna make sure
everybody knows about it so how do you
like navigate those waters that work so
well for you how do you knowing that you
had tried so many other things that
failed one what was that like going
through those failures and internalizing
that and then to how do you help people
get on the other side of that especially
if keto doesn't work for them I think
the failure thing having that shift of
instead of looking at failure as a bad
thing looking at failure as a good thing
is really what pushed me through because
I started looking at it of instead of I
failed I'm no good I'm like hey I failed
and I know what doesn't work now so it's
time to move on to the next thing so
instead of letting it wipe me out I'm
like awesome this didn't work and it's
time to try something else so I totally
redefined what failure looked like and I
was actually kind of excited because I'm
like alright it's time to move on to the
next thing like it's time to pick up and
move on because for far too long I just
let it wipe me out and and I just was so
defeated and ultimately I was learning
what things I could do to get to where I
wanted to go and I think the common
theme is just never giving up you have
to keep pushing forward and that's what
I try to tell people is like no matter
how down-and-out you feel you have to
get back up and you have to keep going
because something will click but if you
stop then it will I was
for someone to come save me and I
remember saying gosh I can't wait until
somebody makes uphill where I'll be able
to lose weight and I was always putting
it off on somebody else and then finally
I was like oh my gosh it's like within
me to change my life and and that's
really when things changed I want to
talk about that moment so I know that
there was one thing going on in there
which was your friend's son was
diagnosed with the terminal disease what
happened why did that hit you so hard
what did that come to mean for you yeah
so my friend's son was diagnosed with
tay-sachs disease and he was about 1
years old at the time and when that
diagnosis hit my daughter was around the
same age as her son and immediately I
just felt like a jerk because I was like
gosh I was given this healthy body I
don't have any terminal diseases and I'm
totally taking my life for granted and I
really wished at that moment that I
could switch places with him because I
felt like I wasn't doing anything with
my life I wasn't showing up for myself
and I just felt so bad knowing that
there was this little boy who was never
gonna have a chance to have a normal
life and yet I was given the ability to
do so and I was sitting on a sideline so
in that moment I decided to start living
for him you know and and sometimes I
feel like it takes living or being
inspired by somebody else to give you
enough strength to really get there
yourself but I first remember actually
when he passed away and I was like I
will not live my life the same way and
anymore it's really incredible because
here is sort of hearing these things a
little bit out of order when you're
talking about you know you got to keep
going and it there is a click moment
there will be something that will
ultimately work for you but if you stop
then it's you're never gonna get to that
moment but you're so like the anti
polished Instagram feed where you're
super real and you're super honest the
book is no exception and so you really
have laid out like how much you
struggled and how many times you thought
this is the one I got it and then you
know something would happen you'd fall
off your diet and
you would back out again what was that
doing to your sense of self and then how
did you get out of that like what was it
about seeing somebody else who didn't
have what you had that really flipped
that switch for you well I think
ultimately like having all those
failures did leave me to give up on
myself and and really just I kind of
almost expected like even when I started
Quito it was my January first plan and I
failed the same day like I actually had
to restart Quito so that's when I really
started to see that even though kita was
a great tool that there was a lot more
to it and I feel like the mindset is so
huge and anything that any changes that
we're making in life if we're really
gonna stick to them if we're really
gonna chase our dreams and we're really
gonna be passionate about life you
really have to kind of wake up in the
morning and like want to go for every
single day and it's not something that
just comes naturally I feel like I had
to you know it's kind of like something
I had to keep working on it's not like
oh I get it one day it's like every day
I wake up and sometimes I'm feeling it
sometimes I'm not and when I'm not I
have to get myself there again and so
it's not something that I think you just
learn for me it was just something that
I have to keep working at and so what do
you say I've got to imagine you get
asked all the time like hey I started
these diets I really want it but then I
run out of energy and I just don't stick
with it and they're looking at you with
that hopeful expectation of how like if
I'm always stopping on day two or three
how do I make it today four and five
well I think and this is where I think
keto really helped me because I
definitely had a food addiction so
eating foods that are higher in sugar
definitely cause that cycle of cravings
and for me when I switched to keto my
appetite went down I thought so much
better and it kind of was able to help
me put food in its proper place and I
had a healthier relationship with food
at that point because I wasn't
constantly like a drug addict to food
you know I was just able to eat and then
be full and go about my day and think
about other things where before food was
all of my thoughts like I would be
thinking about you know breakfast and
and lunch and dinner all you know all
day long and my whole even vacations
were planned around what food places I
would go so it ruled my life and when I
switched to being PETA
and I didn't have that feeling anymore
then it really kind of freed me up to
think about other things that's really
interesting how much of this do you
think is like Kido worked for me or was
it that what was going on in your life
with your friend's son and just how many
times you failed and how frustrated you
were like how much of it is the mindset
and how much of it was okie to actually
broken addiction and allowed me to
neurochemical II get out of this yeah so
I think in the beginning I thought that
it was a lot higher like I would
probably say like 70% keto and I first
started but now I kind of look at it
that it was like 70% mindset I think
keto definitely is a great tool but
ultimately if you aren't getting up
every day and knowing that that is an
investment in yourself I think it people
can look at it as all of this is like a
hard thing to stick to but the thing
that I often talk about and say is when
people are like gosh isms it's a
sacrifice to give up bread and cookies
and candy and things like that I really
focus on the fact that my biggest
sacrifice was when I wasn't able to live
my life and now not having those foods
is not the second physis sacrifice was
my life before and not taking an active
role and not you know just being in a
really dark place I definitely think
that it's more mindset now than I
realized when I started I'm gonna guess
that your for your community very much a
poster child for the person who did it
they made it and thusly become a beacon
of hope for them what do you say to
people who reach out and they they want
it in that like vague way if somebody
wants it but they're not really prepared
to take action like how do you approach
that when they're like I want it but I
don't have the motivation so the thing
that I always tell people is just to do
baby steps so even for me the very first
thing that I started doing before I even
knew what kita was was I stopped
drinking soda so I kind of think that
sometimes people bite off a little bit
too much at once so if you just start
with one thing and then you're
successful with sticking to that and
then you can add on and then add on to
that and add on to that and then
eventually you've made a whole lot of
changes little by little so it doesn't
feel so overwhelming so why kita why
tell us
a little bit about the diet why did it
work is it something that you recommend
other people yeah so keto is a low carb
high fat moderate protein lifestyle I
kind of feel like there is not a
one-size-fits-all with diets but for me
the thing that I hear over and over is
it's like the thing that really helps
people who feel like they have tried
everything else and nothing else has
worked but ultimately I feel like that's
the way that we were really meant to be
eating to begin with I don't think that
all of these processed foods and all the
things that are so high in sugar was
what we were supposed to be eating so
now switching to this way of eating I
feel so much better I actually grew up
thinking that I had really bad stomach
issues and had to get all kinds of
testing because I was always feeling
sick all the time and then when I
switched to keto I was like it was
totally gone so and then on top of that
in just one year I had lost 100 pounds
so it's like obviously the only thing
that I changed with what it was what I
was eating so to me that was kind of
like all right like this we're going in
the right direction where are you going
with it now is it focusing on the
cookbook angle what from keto lifestyle
perspectives got you excited these days
well I like they're having the recipes
in there to give people an idea of what
kinds of things they want to be cooking
and I don't know I just think it's great
to give people a start of different
ideas but definitely for me the next
thing that I really want to focus on is
like the vulnerability aspect and just
you know talking to people about the
struggles and to have that be kind of
more center stage because I think a lot
of times we don't talk about that and
even as I started getting more public
about it a lot of my closest friends
were like oh gosh like we had no idea
that you were struggling so bad like why
didn't you ever say anything but for me
I was always super hard because none of
my friends had really a weight issue so
my friends would be talking to me about
how they needed to lose 10 pounds and I
was like oh like you're like I don't
even want to hear about that you know
like it was just really difficult so I I
didn't really feel like I had a place
where I could say like hey like I'm
feeling really trapped in my body I'm
feeling like completely hopeless like I
am uncomfortable like I'm in my 20s and
I'm getting out of bed and my knees are
popping like I'm scared
you know so to be able to actually say
that to the people in my life was
challenging like I just wasn't really at
a place where I felt like I could talk
about it and now it's like I want to
talk about it because I know other
people are going through it and I don't
want them to be quiet anymore so if you
could travel back in time and speak to
yourself then but as an unrecognizable
version of yourself because I just want
to know like how would you and if you
would how would you approach somebody
who's at that phase were there they are
shutting down inside it is not that
they're they've just come to peace with
their body like they're inside they've
got a real problem and they are not in a
good place
how and would you approach somebody I
think the best thing you can do for
people in that place is to listen
because I think a lot of times we don't
understand what different people are
going through there were so many people
in my family who tried to have these
like little powwow with me when I was
trying to lose weight and I wasn't ready
so I wasn't really that open to it and
it kind of just made me feel even more
to myself because I was like they don't
understand what it's like they think
it's so easy so I didn't really like
that angle like when I was ready I you
know I was kind of just at a certain
place in my life where I knew I really
wanted to change so I kind of feel like
people do need to get to that point in
their own time and I think listening is
just the better thing to do I'm gonna
ask you a really hard question what
would you do if your daughter she's 13
school starts being really hard on her
and she starts putting on weight and
when you asked she says no I'm I'm not
eating anything that you don't prepare
for me but she is starting to get heavy
ten pounds 15 pounds 20 pounds what
would you do well at that point I think
you know it's just so hard because it's
like you don't want to make weight the
focus of what people identify as like
their self-worth so I would really try
to make sure that I need like she knew
how much I loved her and that she could
tell me anything and I would try to just
be like very supportive but I think what
I would probably do is have more of like
a family-style discussion so it was less
about like focused on her and more about
like you know talk of how we were doing
things in the family
but it's just so tough because it's like
with food issues and kids it's like we
do know that sometimes when parents are
a little bit too crazy about the
guidelines that kids end up sneaking
food and things like that happened so I
think I would probably just try to have
it be more of like a family discussion I
asked because I had a fan of my other
show impact Theory had a little brother
and his little brother was being bullied
because of his weight and they brought
it up to me and asked for my advice I'm
like look I'm not the right person to
give advice this I've never had to talk
to somebody about that I don't have kids
but I said I'll get on the phone with
him so let's do like a Skype call so we
did a Skype call and in like in an
instant I realized every strategy I have
works with adults and not at all with
kids and it was like whoa what do I do
because so my first question was just
like hey look first of all live whatever
life you want so if you internally like
in your mind you are totally a piece of
being heavy yeah rad like no worries
whatsoever but if inside you're actually
unhappy and you want the the bullying to
stop you want to get in shape then one
is that true and he just shrugged his
shoulders and so it's like to me that's
a yes that's like a huge yes right it's
like it's here but I don't want to talk
about it right and so I was like wow I'm
gonna get off this call having been of
absolutely no use and it's literally
reason 462 I don't have children yeah
because I think I'm incapable of helping
but looking at what you're doing like so
much of it is aimed at at really helping
people and I can feel as your rhetoric
shifts away from just the diet into the
emotional side that these are the waters
that you're gonna be navigating what
advice do you have for our friend I
think ultimately I think the best thing
to do is just be true to yourself and
and know that ultimately I had to get to
a place where I stopped letting my value
be defined by what everybody
was thinking of me how did you do that
work because I heard you when you posted
that video I was like that's really
impressive
so let me what I actually heard was you
stopped doing YouTube for like a day
here I did and why did you stop so I
stopped because basically like I was
just getting all kinds of feedback that
was a lot of really negative feedback
and a lot of stuff that was really
hurtful and I had spent so much of my
life
hearing things like that or people
people were just saying awful things and
there was a lot of good too
but what I had realized in the process
is I was letting both the good and the
bad be kind of like the judge of like Oh
am i alright today like am i helpful
today or am i no good or am i you know
not putting out anything valuable and I
had to kind of get to that place where I
was like wait a minute like all this
noise what's happening it can't it can't
be the thing that just defines how I am
feeling about myself because then it's
kind of back to like the ups and downs
and I and I really needed to be at a
more stable place and find that value
within myself so I decided to take a
break from YouTube and I just kind of
worked on myself worked on the book
thought about like what what really my
passions were and what I was bringing to
the table and finally I was really able
to just get to a place where I was like
all right like I'm ready now to put
myself back out there and part of my
struggle is allowing myself to be seen
because I spent a good amount of my life
hiding so now my new thing is you know
don't say no to anything unless it's
dangerous you know so everything out
there that's scaring me I'm doing it
because I am so tired of counting myself
out of things and not showing up for
myself that I feel like I'm kind of
making up for lost time so I'm like
alright saying what you need to say I'm
gonna delete you and block you and I'm
not gonna let it right now Maya prayed
so I've just kind of learned to have a
little bit of a thicker skin and know
that what I'm doing is important I love
that more than you can imagine
so the whole notion of showing up for
yourself I love that yeah what I want to
know is there's a magic moment in there
somewhere
where something specific you said you
were thinking about it but what
conclusions did you come to that are
hand off a bowl that allowed you to
develop that thicker skin well honestly
I feel like I found my straw
through a lot of bren Brown books you
know just listening to her talk about
like the power of vulnerability and to
really just kind of get to a place where
I'm like I am valuable and the things
that I'm talking about are important and
reaching out and connecting with people
and the passions that I have for really
breaking through to the people who are
in a place where I was and just like how
much I genuinely wake up and you know
want to work on that every single day I
kind of thought my whole life that when
I lost the weight that was gonna be the
instant fix for me like that was the
thing that was always out of reach and
once I lost weight everything was going
to be okay and that was a big epic lie
that I told myself for a really long
time and then I had blossom I'm like
well great I'm still battling with
feeling not good enough I'm still
judging myself and picking myself apart
and I'm still letting other people reign
in on that as well so I think just kind
of getting to a place where you're like
I've had enough like I'm not going to
let this cycle continue and knowing how
detrimental that can be to your mental
health so yeah I just kind of was
reading a lot of different books I was
actually reading a lot of books that you
had recommended about mindset and I just
kind of was like I'm not doing it
anymore and little by little I just kind
of was building up a new way of thinking
that's amazing talk to me about Mick
yeah seems like I love these bonuses
yeah it you guys just seemed like
teammates like through and through so
but you guys got together when you were
near your heaviest yeah so walk me
through how were you able to open
yourself up to being in a relationship
when you were unhappy with yourself were
there things that he did that sort of
made you more open to that yeah honestly
I think I actually remember even like
when we started dating I actually
specifically remember thinking like what
does like why does he want to date me
you know and I'm like God like I look
back I know like that's so sad that I
was feeling that way but there was
really times where I was like what like
is this a trick like what you know he
was really the first person I had ever
really dated but it's so cool because he
had gone through similar struggles and
actually before we met he had lost like
almost 200 pounds
yeah so like he had like we had a lot of
very similar pain that we had been
through and we could really relate on so
many different levels but the man we
started dating it's like two food
addicts were in the room and like all
the dating and restaurants and then we
both ballooned up even more so when we
got married we were both morbidly obese
I had a heck of a time finding a wedding
dress like it was just it kind of put a
damper on the whole thing and a lot of
times people will say like well why do
you let your weight you know be
something that really what could ruin of
in a day like that but there's so many
things that go on I mean even stuff like
a close family member of mine was
questioning why I would pay to have a
photographer at my wedding oh yeah like
and not even like nonchalantly saying it
like straight up like why would you pay
to have someone take your picture and
it's like that kind of pain is heavy you
know and so like on my wedding day like
I didn't feel beautiful I didn't I
wasn't enjoying the moment I was in like
a white strapless dress and I was so
self-conscious and you know I really
wasn't able to really just be in the
moment so on the list is definitely
renewing our wedding vows going up but
you know I think the best thing about
Mick is that no matter what size I've
been he is always pushed and and really
made me feel like I was important and
that you know even when I didn't believe
it myself like he just he loved me
through every size and believed in me
through every size and he still to this
day just looks at me exactly the same
way he's just been such a constant and
such a great support system and how did
you guys navigate those waters of going
through a process of trying to find
yourself and become happy with yourself
and it's it seems to me they could be
pretty you guys have gone through such a
transformation to have done it together
somehow how did you make sure you were
growing together I think it was just
making sure that we really took the time
to be invested in to like get into
whatever the other person was doing so
when we lived in Florida it was kind of
like we were spinning our wheels a lot
we didn't really have a whole lot of
opportunity and Mick has kind of like a
Cinderella story with his
because he barely graduated from high
school his family wasn't super involved
in like his education and he just worked
and worked and worked and now he's a
senior software engineer in Silicon
Valley so it's like he was a like he's
just a go-getter and I think that
mentality like really kind of rubbed off
on me and it inspired me because I think
a lot of times we think like oh well you
have to have these steps to do something
where really you're like no I can just
do it if I work hard enough so having
that mentality of just going for what we
wanted and once we got to the point
where we're like hey we can do whatever
we want to do we're just standing in our
own way I think we both just grew so
much and luckily it was together as well
so you just said something that I find
it really intriguing that we were
getting in our own way
how how does one get out of their own
way I think it comes down to the mindset
it's instead of saying I can't do this I
can't do that I feel that this I'm
incapable of this I'm not good enough
it's it's literally changing the
thoughts like I would literally say to
myself like stop saying this like I
would must have looked like a crazy
person like sometimes I go in the mirror
and I would be like you can do this like
it's gonna be okay it's don't let fear
hold you back things can be scary and
you can push through them you know I
used to let fear just kind of be like
the roadblock and now I'm like all right
like what's so scary what's what's going
on all right we can move past this all
right let's let's do this so it's it's
literally just retraining your thoughts
to promote the ability to change that's
really impressive
I remember the first time that I was on
national television I all bet had a
panic attack like I had not quite
mastered getting my anxiety into control
at that point so seeing you do these TV
appearances recently I was like man I am
really impressed like how did you learn
to deal with that kind of stuff where
you know here's somebody that it hidden
for so many years because she felt like
she wasn't good enough wasn't worthy was
afraid she was gonna say the wrong thing
and now all of a sudden like three short
years later you're on national
television in one of the biggest
spotlights you know I can imagine you
did it like a champ I was terrified I
was I was I mean
absolutely I mean but see that that's a
great thing is really being able to see
that it's okay for things to be
intimidating or to make you anxious but
to not let it stop doing your tracks
like before if someone was like hey do
you want to go and be on the show I'd be
like absolutely not like there is no way
I mean even if I was invited to a party
a small party I would be in the corner
of the room trying to blend in so
ultimately it was it's okay to still
have things be scary and to be a new
experience but then as you go through
them you're like that really wasn't so
bad and if I would have said no I would
have just held myself back from
something you know something else and so
I think every time I stand up and I show
up for myself and it really it wasn't as
bad as what I maybe thought that it was
going to be or I talked myself through
it and got to the other side then I'm
like all right like this is RA I can
keep going forward to the next thing and
then each thing that comes up isn't as
scary because then you know that you've
gone through stuff that you were afraid
of and you got out on the other side
alright so going back to Mick for a
second what was his reaction when you
guys went or when you went kedo he
thought I was insane absolutely insane
like he he I think a lot of times people
have a really hard time wrapping their
head around like a high fat diet and in
his defense I had come home probably
like every single year like usually
around the year's resolution time with
like this is it like this is gonna be
the thing that we're gonna do and it's
gonna change everything and you know we
would stick to it for a couple weeks and
then you know go right back to our old
ways so he was very much used to me
coming home with the you know diet of
the week and actually when I started he
did not start with me he was ordering
pizzas while I was cooking keto in the
kitchen and I was like I hate you
but eventually I think it was you know a
couple weeks in like I had lost like 21
pounds and he was like alright it's time
for me to do keto - because you're
serious this time like I know you when
you get your mind set on something and
like I see that this is really working
like I know that I need to hop on board
because I want to do this with you it's
really impressive yeah so what was your
favorite part about doing the book I
think I really liked just being able to
break
things down in an approachable way for
people so the beginning talks about my
story so that people understand that
I've been there I think that it's really
important to see that you know when
someone's like talking about changing
your life it's one thing if you know
they have all these great ideas but if
they haven't been through the struggle
themselves it's a little bit harder to
get on the same page of like really
understanding what it's like to be
morbidly obese and how to overcome that
and how difficult it really is so I just
wanted to let people know that I had
failed a hundred times too and and get
people on the same page with that and
then to break down the diet in a way
that people could really understand it
easily and have it not be intimidating
was my main goal because I feel like a
lot of times things can just get super
overwhelming and I feel like having just
a clean foundation of very simple
explanations and then if people want to
kind of take from there and learn and
grow they could do that but I just
wanted to give like a really positive
and encouraging place for people to
start so other than that it's a high fat
moderate protein low to no carbohydrate
diet what are what some of that clean
foundation that you try to make sure
people get well I mean basically I just
break down like what foods people are
going to be eating what foods you're
going to be avoiding and why you're
gonna be avoiding the certain foods and
then I talk about like testing if people
do want to test their ketones and just
kind of like breaking down I went
through and kind of answered all the
emails that I get asked most frequently
in there there's so many different ways
that people do keto and there's so many
different opinions and I just kind of
went through step by step of like here's
an approach and here's an approach what
are some of the most frequently asked
questions that you get asked so I get a
lot of questions about like can you do
this while you're traveling like or like
when you're eating out like is it hard
to stick to you know that's kind of like
one of the things that I hear the most
of people are trying to figure out like
is this realistic is this long-term and
what's your advice to that so I
personally think that keto is very
realistic to do and it's great for if
you even if you're traveling even while
I've been out on the book tour it's just
been very easy it's so easy to modify
things
and I think in a restaurant yeah like
any time when you're going out to eat
you can just do very simple
modifications to make things keto
friendly so what I really like about it
is you're not trying to like put food in
containers or you're trying to put it
like a point system like you're learning
about the actual food that you're eating
and then you're learning what ratios to
eat the food into better fuel your body
and what are so I'll give you a couple
of mine my sort of keto friendly travel
tips are I take a massive amount of
macadamia nuts so those are like my
go-to when I just need like a little
snack or something yeah I get hamburgers
at the restaurant no bun no sauce yeah
and I can live between macadamia nuts
and burgers like I could literally live
forever yeah but then I also will take
things like there's a company called
keto cookie when Quest was doing keto
products I literally stockpiled and
froze them so what are some things that
you do when you're traveling you know I
don't really do a whole lot of like
bringing stuff with me I just print it
pretty much like when I go out I do
exactly what you do like the bunless
burgers like any sandwich you can
imagine if you just get it without the
bun I do bring like some like quest
stuff with me when I go out but I really
I feel like the best thing about keto is
that you don't have to overthink it you
can just live your normal life how you
would before you don't have to be
constantly thinking about your diet and
that's like that's like the ultimate
thing to me is to not have to be
obsessing about it it's just it's my new
normal it's just my lifestyle and I
don't really obsess over it do you still
check your blood levels every once in a
while but not like on a daily basis
mostly if I'm like testing out new foods
or new macros
I don't really track very closely
anymore I did the first year but now
it's pretty like I can feel when I'm in
ketosis like I just feel so much better
but sometimes I do test just out of
curiosity and I have the kid at home so
the blood work and stuff gets really
interesting so we had Mark Sisson on the
show and he was going really hardcore on
the science of like what's happening and
talking about how depending on how you
utilize the ketones will determine your
blood reading so it's like you have to
be a little bit careful and obviously
the urines
change because when you first kick off
into ketosis it appears in your urine
but then as your body gets more
efficient at using it it stops and many
people think oh am I not in ketosis
anymore right actually in a better place
so that that stuff's pretty interesting
what are some of the other questions
that people ask you so a lot of times
people ask about like having kids and
being keto like if that's an option like
how how do I do this while having you
know people at home who aren't
supportive or who aren't on a diet
that's a group yeah and I think a lot of
times too with that is like what do I
also do with my doctor is not supportive
which is exactly the same thing that I
was in so I definitely had like friends
who didn't understand and my doctor was
like I don't really know how I feel
about this and I'm like we'll listen
like it's I literally feel like I'm at
the point now where I'm either gonna get
weight-loss surgery because I feel like
I tried it all or I'm gonna do this and
I've done some research and I don't
think that eating healthy fats is bad
for us so I'm like give me a year I'll
come back you can do my blood work we
can get into all that and when I came
back like 100 pounds later she like
didn't even recognize me and she did my
blood work and she's like holy moly like
this is like everything is great like
your levels are perfectly healthy and
now every year I go back and I'm like
hey you gonna do some blood work just
for fun like I don't know you know and
so now she actually recommends keto to
her own patients which has been really
cool to like have a doctor who would
even just be open-minded and not to say
like hey this isn't what I was taught in
school but like I'm watching I'm looking
at your blood results and I'm being
open-minded and to see that change in
her was really cool gave me a lot of
hope for the health community to wrap
their head around things yeah let's get
a little hopeless for a second so you
were just on the Today Show yeah
remember where they had their president
nutritional expert basically heckle the
ketogenic diet yeah so that was pretty
interesting yeah what's your take on
that with her whole sense of well
there's no longitudinal studies on what
the effects of this are going to be
long-term
my biggest approach with keto is like
when people don't agree or don't
understand like I don't make it my job
to prove
like I'm I don't feel like I'm here to
argue it with anybody I just like to
lead by example and if someone wants to
have a thoughtful discussion of it or if
they're like hey can you send me your
research or what like can do you want to
talk about it and I'm happy to talk
about it but I just kind of feel like
she has her way of doing things and I
had tried that way of doing things and
it wasn't working for me so what I try
to challenge people to do is I'm not
saying kudos for everyone but I'm saying
it needs to be an option we need to have
multiple options of different life
styles that people can live because we
don't all fit in one box so that's what
I really try to promote yeah I get that
for sure yeah all right well what do you
hoping comes out of all of this I didn't
start this really with a direct
intention of doing anything it all kind
of like popped up and I was like wow
there's you know what am I going to do
now that I have this passion because
this is really the last thing that I
ever expected to a be passionate about
and B to be doing in general so I think
when I really think about what I'm the
most passionate about is helping others
and connecting with others and just
getting everything out there that we
need to be talking about because I feel
like we have the highlight reels of like
all these great things that people are
doing and all these happy things and you
know with social media it's like
everything can look so curated and I
want to bring to the table like real
life like the struggles like the UPS the
Downs everything in between and let
people know that it's that's what real
people are going through and to know
that you should just never give up and
you always have to keep going and I
really just want to connect with those
people who are at the place where I was
yeah all right before I ask my final
question working these guys find you
online so on Instagram it's keto Karma
pretty much on all social media it's
keto Karma and then my blog is keto
Karma calm and then the book is simply
keto and that's on Amazon Barnes & Noble
the mean bookstores alright last thing
for anybody watching what's the one
thing that they could change or do to
have the biggest impact on their health
I think the biggest change you can do is
just really make yourself an investment
and you know when you wake up in the
morning make sure that the things that
you're doing
are are supporting your goals and
supporting things that you really want
out of life and to really stop settling
because if you really want to do
something you have the power to do so
you just have to get up and you have to
work for it and you can't just expect
and wait for someone to come save you
you have to get up and save yourself
that is amazing guys legitimately I'm
not sure that I could have said it any
better than that
no one is coming to save you this is
really on you and what I love about
Suzanne's method what's in the book on
her blogs in everything that she puts
out there is this sense of you've got to
put you first you've got to find
self-love you've got to understand that
losing all the weight is not gonna solve
the problems that it really is something
that you have to do from a mindset
perspective to really understand your
self-worth to understand that you're
worth all of this effort but to
understand that you have to put in all
of that effort but if you do that and if
you take the failures as she said as a
learning experience rather than as some
indictment into who you are you learn
from that even if it's just what doesn't
work for you then you can try something
new and as she said there will finally
be this click moment but if you stop
you're never gonna find it so boys and
girls keep going
let her be an inspiration join her
follow her I'm telling you it will be
one of the most encouraging amazing
things you will ever do she is a bright
light on the on the internet doing
amazing things all right if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe and until
next time my friends be legendary take
care thank you guys so much for watching
and being a part of this community if
you haven't already be sure to subscribe
you're gonna get weekly videos on
building a growth mindset cultivating
grit and unlocking your full potential